Mr. and Mrs. Dursley were the last people you'd expect to be involved in anything strange or mysterious. The Dursleys had a small son called Dudley and in their opinion there was no finer boy anywhere. They didn't think they could bear it if anyone found out about the Potters. Harry Potter wakes up to find his aunt Petunia rapping on his door. She wants him to look after the bacon on Dudley's birthday. Under a tuft of jet-black hair over his forehead they could see a curiously shaped cut, like a bolt of lightning. Uncle Vernon and Aunt Petunia wanted to move Harry into Dudley's second bedroom. Harry moved everything he owned from the cupboard to this room. No less than twelve letters arrived for Harry on Friday. Uncle Vernon burned all the letters, boarded up the cracks around the front and back doors. All students should have a copy of each of the following: The Standard Book of Spells (Grade 1) by Miranda Goshawk A History of Magic by Bathilda Bagshot Magical Theory by Adalbert Waffling A Beginners' Guide to Transfiguration by Emetic Switch One Thousand Magical Herbs and Fungi by Phyllida Spore Magical Drafts and Potions by Arsenius Jigger Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them by Newt Scamander The Dark Forces: A Guide to Self-Protection by Quentin Trimble Students may also bring an owl OR a cat OR a toad. Harry's last month with the Dursleys wasn't fun. Dudley was now so scared of Harry he wouldn't stay in the same room. Uncle Vernon dumped Harry's trunk onto a cart and wheeled it into the station for him. Harry and Ron were sitting in their compartment when a boy came in. The pale boy from Madam Malkin's robe shop was looking at Harry with a lot more interest than he'd shown back in Diagon Alley. \"They're saying all down the train that Harry Potter's in this compartment. So it's you, is it?\" \"Yes,\" said Harry. \"I think I can tell who the wrong sort are for myself\" Harry Potter was chosen for Gryffindor. He was so relieved to have been chosen and not put in Slytherin, he hardly noticed that he was getting the loudest cheer yet. Harry and Ron met Hagrid in a small wooden house on the edge of the forbidden forest. Neville had never been on a broomstick in his life, because his grandmother had never let him near one. Hermione Granger was almost as nervous about flying as Neville was.