I am providing you a TEXT and your task is to extract the crux of it and generate a summary in about 4 pages. You can choose a paragraph style summary with continuous text, synopsis style summary with Headings, Subheadings, points or a hybrid of the two depending on the TEXT.
Output only the summarized version, no extra instructions, questions, warnings etc.

[TEXT START]
10/09/2025, 00:18 The “New You” Business
Competitive Strategy
The “New You” Business
by Lance A. Bettencourt, B. Joseph Pine II, James H. Gilmore and David W.
N
orton
From the Magazine (January–February 2022)
Floral Artist: Lewis M
iller Design; Photographer: Raymond Meier
Summary. All too often fitness centers, medical providers, colleges, and
organizations in many other industries seek
to distinguish themselves only on the
Privacy - Terms
https://hbr.org/2022/01/the-new-you-business 1/28
10/09/2025, 00:18 The “New You” Business
quality, convenience, and experience of what they sell, say the authors. It’s not that
those things... more
The end goal of people who go to fitness centers isn’t access to
the equipment or trainers; it is to get in shape. The overriding
reason people go to their doctor or check into a hospital is not to
obtain drug prescriptions, a medical examination, or therapeutic
procedures; it is to get well. And students’ primary motive for
going to college is not to buy a lot of books, have their papers and
exams graded by professors, or even have the classroom and all-
around college experience; it is to gain skills or expertise and
pursue a career.
00:00 / 35:24
Listen to this article
To hear more, download the Noa app
But all too often fitness centers, medical providers, colleges, and
organizations in many other industries seek to distinguish
themselves only on the quality, convenience, and experience of
what they sell. It’s not that those things aren’t important. But they
matter only as means to the ends that people seek. Too many
organizations lose sight of this truth. Even when they do promote
what they sell in relation to customers’ aspirations, they rarely
https://hbr.org/2022/01/the-new-you-business 2/28
10/09/2025, 00:18 The “New You” Business
design solutions that allow people to realize them. Instead,
individuals must cobble together what they think they need to
achieve their goals—for example, a trainer, a particular diet, and a
support network to lose weight.
Even though we’re all filled with hopes, aims, and ambitions,
significant change is incredibly hard to accomplish on our own.
Enterprises should recognize the economic opportunity offered
by the transformation business, in which they partner with
consumers to improve some fundamental aspect of their lives—to
achieve a “new you.
”
How Transformations Are Unique
Creating economic value from transformations requires first a full
understanding of what it means to be in the transformation
business. It entails:
Selling a distinct economic offering. As two of us (Joe Pine and
Jim Gilmore) describe in “Welcome to the Experience Economy”
(HBR, July–August 1998), companies (and economies) create
more and more value as they shift from selling commodities to
manufacturing goods to delivering services to staging
experiences. Transformations extend this progression to the fifth
level, where companies help customers achieve major change.
https://hbr.org/2022/01/the-new-you-business 3/28
10/09/2025, 00:18 The “New You” Business
The floral designer Lewis M
iller creates guerrilla flower installations around
throughout the city. More than
9
0 of these arrangements are documented in M
Press, 2021). Irini Arakas Greenbaum
New Yor
k in an effort to spar
k j
oy
iller’s boo
k, Flower Flash (Monacelli
https://hbr.org/2022/01/the-new-you-business 4/28
10/09/2025, 00:18 The “New You” Business
Focusing on the customer’s success. The goods, services, and
even experiences a company offers matter only in how they help
customers achieve their desired results. Each customer’s
definition of success must therefore be the North Star that guides
what a company does if it wants to compete on transformations.
Having a solutions mindset. True transformations require
complete solutions. But most companies provide only a small part
of what customers need—exercise equipment to become more fit,
a sleep app to slumber restfully, a spa retreat to reconnect with
one’s spouse—and largely leave the actual change customers seek
to their own efforts. As a result, customers often fail. By contrast,
companies that compete by providing transformations offer
everything—on their own or in partnership with others—that
customers need to succeed.
That outcome depends on a commitment from each customer to
achieve an aim on which he or she and the company agree. This is
the approach of Profile by Sanford, a franchiser unit of Sanford
Health of Sioux Falls, South Dakota, which guides people to
achieve weight loss through a customized, keto-based health and
nutrition regimen of six meal occasions a day. (Disclosure: One of
us, Jim Gilmore, spoke at an annual Profile franchisee conference
for a onetime fee and then became a Profile member and lost 50
pounds in a year. He has no current involvement with the
company.) A Profile coach first discusses activity and lifestyle
https://hbr.org/2022/01/the-new-you-business 5/28
10/09/2025, 00:18 The “New You” Business
issues in a 90-minute exploratory session with each prospective
customer and then explains annual membership pricing. If the
person wants to move forward, the coach asks him or her to raise
a hand and recite a pledge. Only then does the coach take body
and weight measurements and, with the customer, set an initial
goal. Interestingly, the pledge does not involve a promise from the
customer to lose a set amount of weight; rather, it asks for a
commitment to the process, which will involve talking with the
coach via phone, streaming chat, or face-to-face for 30 minutes
each week for a full year.
True transformations require
complete solutions. But most
companies leave the actual change
customers seek to their own efforts.
The weekly conversations ensure that customers understand the
sundry journey maps, nutrition charts, and portion guidelines
and also the progress-tracking app furnished to assist them in
shopping for and preparing each meal. Over time, they also offer
coaches an opportunity to introduce behavior-change topics such
as fostering more exercise (park farther from a destination than
normal, for example), adding variety to meal preparations (Profile
https://hbr.org/2022/01/the-new-you-business 6/28
10/09/2025, 00:18 The “New You” Business
mixes can make either puddings or shakes), and using tricks to
promote new habits (substitute spiralized zucchini for starchy
noodles). Instead of dumping all its know-how on customers up
front, the company doles out weekly insights from its ever-
increasing portfolio of pointers to ensure that customers succeed.
Researchers at Profile by Sanford cite studies suggesting that their
approach is more effective than others. A study published in the
American Journal of Health Behavior by Heontae Kim and five
coauthors (two of whom were Sanford employees) found that the
more often individuals had one-on-one meetings with their
coaches, the more weight they lost; the nearly 8,800 participants
lost more than 8% of their weight, on average. Separate research
suggests two things: structured nutrition plans that provide
participants with support are superior to those that offer only
reduced-calorie diets, and personal coaching is more effective
than recorded lessons. For example, a study published in BMJ
Open Diabetes Research & Care focused on Omada, a competitor
whose program involves only recorded lessons. It found that
individuals in Omada’s program lost, on average, 5% of their body
weight over 16 weeks and 4.7% over 12 months. A separate study,
published in the International Journal of Environmental Research
and Public Health, found that Profile customers had lost an
average of 8.1% of their weight three months into the program and
8.2% over 12 months.
https://hbr.org/2022/01/the-new-you-business 7/28
10/09/2025, 00:18 The “New You” Business
Defining a Successful Transformation
Drawing on our work in understanding customer needs and how
to design innovative offerings and meaningful experiences, we
have created a three-step process for learning what customers in
general or specific sets of customers would consider to be a
successful transformation. Armed with this knowledge, a
company can design a transformation offering.
Ascertain the j
obs to be done. Executives must understand what
customers want to achieve—their jobs to be done. Those jobs fall
into four categories.
Functional jobs represent a goal or a task the customer is trying to
accomplish (such as prepare a meal) or a problem the customer
needs to resolve (such as relieve joint pain). Some functional jobs
center on specific tasks and yield to specific solutions. But others
entail individual change: going from sick to healthy, unskilled to
skilled, indebted to debt-free, and so on.
Emotional jobs address the feelings (empowerment, being
appreciated) that people want to heighten or diminish in any
given moment or future circumstance.
Social jobs concern how an individual wants to be perceived
(attractive, professional) or relate to others (with encouragement
https://hbr.org/2022/01/the-new-you-business 8/28
10/09/2025, 00:18 The “New You” Business
or empathy).
Aspirational jobs sit at the highest level of what motivates people.
They involve becoming who an individual wants to be: loved,
living life to the fullest, financially secure, successful careerwise,
and so on. Aspirational jobs may encompass a lifelong journey;
they are often not well understood and, as a result, left
unaddressed by companies.
Businesses can use several methods to understand customers’
jobs to be done, including interviews, observation, and
ethnography. Data alone won’t uncover what motivates people,
what goals they have, or what problems they want resolved.
https://hbr.org/2022/01/the-new-you-business 9/28
10/09/2025, 00:18 Floral Artist: Lewis M
The “New You” Business
iller Design; Photographer: Irini Arakas Greenbaum
Even when customers express their desires only in terms of
functional jobs, an adept interviewer will seek to understand the
emotional, social, and aspirational jobs lurking beneath the
surface. The Toyota Production System’s technique of asking “5
whys” is especially useful in uncovering aspirations. When asked
why she is getting an MBA, for example, a student may talk of
various skills she wants to develop. But when asked about her
motivation for developing those skills, she may reply that she
wants to find a better job, which, in turn, might be because she
wants to feel proud, be perceived as competent, or become a
corporate leader.
Define success along the way. Companies must spend time
interacting with customers to understand what success looks like
at every point along the transformation journey. A company
should consider what new understanding, decisions, and tasks
are required for an individual to prepare, make progress, and
sustain the desired results. Success at each stage typically
involves getting things done in a timely manner without issues
and with a positive outcome. To gain insights for a specific
journey, it’s useful to ask questions about each stage, such as:
“What would you like to see happen quickly? What problems or
inconsistencies would you like to avoid? What does success look
https://hbr.org/2022/01/the-new-you-business 10/28
10/09/2025, 00:18 The “New You” Business
like?” (To learn how to uncover opportunities for innovation
across the stages of getting a job done, see “The Customer-
Centered Innovation Map,
” HBR, May 2008.)
For example, patient interviews conducted by one of us (Lance
Bettencourt) on behalf of a start-up telemedicine provider
revealed that success during the journey from being sick to being
well generally meant that patients did not feel rushed during a
visit, had a thorough understanding of their diagnosis, got
effective recommendations for their personal situation, were clear
about what actions they needed to take to get better, and could
afford a recommended treatment. Failure to address those
interim outcomes often leads to follow-up care that would
otherwise have been unnecessary.
This situation is ripe for a transformation offering, especially
among older or disadvantaged patients with chronic conditions.
Such an offering might include advocates to help patients get
answers to all their questions, an app that guides and motivates
patients to fulfill their essential role in recovery, telemedicine for
follow-up issues, medical staffers trained to support patients’
functional and emotional needs, and payments tied to successful
treatment outcomes.
Identify the barriers. Once a company knows what success means
for a customer, the final step is identifying the barriers that stand
https://hbr.org/2022/01/the-new-you-business 11/28
10/09/2025, 00:18 The “New You” Business
in the way and figuring out how to assist in overcoming them.
These barriers exist in three primary domains: resources
(available offerings, time, budget), customer readiness (skills,
motivation, clarity), and context (when and where things are
done).
Conversations with customers can help identify the barriers. A
dieter may be giving in to late-night temptation; a student may
lack study skills; a patient may not have the time, inclination, or
resources to stick with the prescribed therapy. Customers can be
asked questions such as: In what ways do current offerings fall
short? Where do you lack knowledge or motivation? What keeps
you from making desired progress? But companies shouldn’t stop
there. They should also consult their internal experts, who have
spent time with customers to understand what hinders success,
and external specialists, who have studied particular challenges
such as diabetics’ struggles to keep their disease under control.
These sources can also help identify deficiencies in the goods,
services, and experiences currently available to customers.
A Case Study: TrueConnect
Let’s look at how the financial benefit provider TrueConnect
learned to help people with poor credit scores obtain loans that
they could afford to repay. When such individuals encounter
financial difficulty from unexpected medical bills, an auto
accident, or even a broken appliance, often their only recourse is
https://hbr.org/2022/01/the-new-you-business 12/28
10/09/2025, 00:18 The “New You” Business
to obtain high-interest loans from payday lenders or vehicle title
loan providers that ultimately land them in an even worse
situation: They take on debt at a higher interest rate than they can
repay, making them more vulnerable to another crisis.
Conversations that TrueConnect’s founders had with people with
low credit scores generated insights into their jobs to be done, the
pain points they experienced, and the barriers they encountered
in trying to access funds when facing a financial shortfall. Often
their credit history made it impossible for them to obtain loans
from traditional financial institutions. And even when those
institutions were willing to lend, they rarely provided the funds
quickly enough. Would-be borrowers thus fell even further behind
in paying their bills or sought funds from predatory lenders. The
founders’ interviews also revealed that the jobs to be done
transcended onetime access to funds; for example, customers also
wanted to avoid future financial trouble or to increase their credit
score over time.
Transformations aren’t produced in a
factory or placed on a shelf in a store;
https://hbr.org/2022/01/the-new-you-business 13/28
10/09/2025, 00:18 The “New You” Business
they are achieved in partnership with
the person being transformed.
These insights and other research helped TrueConnect identify
characteristics that a responsible alternative to payday loans must
have, such as being available without regard to a credit score and
being easy to repay in full. The company built a business model
that provides a streamlined way for individuals whose household
incomes fall in the bottom 30% to apply for and access loans
through their employers. (The loans are provided by Sunrise
Banks, a certified B corporation.) Many of its customers, however,
are higher-income individuals with poor credit.
Employees fill out an application online and thus never have to
face the embarrassment of explaining their circumstances to
another person. TrueConnect’s system approves loans in less than
a second once the enrolled company has verified the applicant’s
employment via a fully automated process.
But this is not a one-and-done exercise. TrueConnect helps
ensure that borrowers stay out of financial trouble by limiting
loan amounts to 8% of what an employee earns annually; offering
an annual interest rate of 19.99% with no credit check and a rate
as low as 3.99% with a credit check; charging no fees; and using
https://hbr.org/2022/01/the-new-you-business 14/28
10/09/2025, 00:18 The “New You” Business
automatic payroll deductions to simplify repayment. By
comparison, the interest rates on payday loans range from 200%
to higher than 600%.
To help customers along their journey to what the company calls
“financial wellness,
” TrueConnect partners with coaches across
the country to offer free counseling on topics such as creating and
sticking to a budget, prioritizing expenditures, reducing debt, and
establishing good credit.
Launched in 2013, TrueConnect now helps provide loans through
more than 1,200 employers, ranging from large enterprises to
small nonprofits. Employees who have used it are satisfied: It has
a high average Net Promoter Score (which is calculated by
subtracting the percentage of customers who say they are unlikely
to recommend your offering to others from the percentage of
those who say they are likely to do so) of 76.
Designing the Offering
Once a company has ascertained the jobs to be done, defined
success at every stage in the journey, and identified the barriers
that must be overcome, it can translate this knowledge into a
transformation offering by utilizing some or all of five
approaches.
https://hbr.org/2022/01/the-new-you-business 15/28
10/09/2025, 00:18 The “New You” Business
1. Integrate solutions. Transformations involve journeys that cut
across many offerings, so companies must integrate the goods,
services, and experiences required to help customers achieve
success. A company needn’t provide all of them itself; it can
partner with others. The development of an integrated care model
for mental health services at Texas Christian University (TCU)
illustrates the value of both approaches. (One of us, Lance
Bettencourt, is employed at TCU.)
In late 2019 Eric Wood, a psychologist who was then the new
director of TCU’s Counseling & Mental Health Center, recognized
that short-term counseling, consisting of perhaps four to eight
sessions over the course of a semester, was all that the university
mental-health model was designed to provide. Even that, he told
us, was challenging for his small staff of seven full-time therapists
(including himself), given the growing needs of TCU’s nearly
11,000 students. So Wood decided to create a comprehensive
collaborative care model (CCCM), which integrates essential
resources from both inside and outside the university; it enabled
48% more students to receive therapy in 2020 than in 2019.
TCU now partners with a local outpatient behavioral-health
treatment center that opened offices on the TCU campus. This
arrangement ensures that students have easy access to the care
they need for significant mental-health issues that may last a year
https://hbr.org/2022/01/the-new-you-business 16/28
10/09/2025, 00:18 The “New You” Business
or longer, such as depression, suicidal inclinations, substance
abuse, and eating disorders. It permits TCU’s staff to focus on
providing short-term therapy to students with more-common
problems such as coping with anxiety and working through
relationship difficulties.
CCCM also integrates other sources of support that exist within
the university. A student suffering from a lack of friends, for
example, is often better served by the Division of Student Affairs,
which can connect the student with appropriate activities and
clubs. And TCU now has more than 20 peer support communities
focused on grief, substance abuse, anxiety, body image, and more.
The early results that Wood shared with us indicate that students
in those communities are less likely to need additional
counseling.
2. Engage each customer as an essential partner.
Transformations aren’t produced in a factory or placed on a shelf
in a store; they are achieved in partnership with the person being
transformed. Accordingly, a company must determine what
expectations, know-how, and motivation customers need at every
stage of their individual journeys. The answers translate into
solutions designed to guide the journey, equip customers
thoroughly for their role in a transformation, and strengthen their
resolve to persist in the face of difficulty.
“Guide” is precisely the
https://hbr.org/2022/01/the-new-you-business 17/28
10/09/2025, 00:18 The “New You” Business
right word, for in the end, customers must change themselves; the
company can only create the optimal conditions.
A company that excels at this is Noom, another enterprise that
helps customers lose weight. Started in 2008, Noom originally
provided fitness equipment, but it realized that true change
required more than useful tools. In 2014 it hired Andreas
Michaelides as its chief of psychology to help rethink its offering.
https://hbr.org/2022/01/the-new-you-business 18/28
10/09/2025, 00:18 The “New You” Business
Floral Artist: Lewis M
iller Design; Photographer: Irini Arakas Greenbaum
Michaelides now describes Noom as a behavior-change company.
He told us in an interview that lifelong change requires starting
with the “why” behind an individual’s weight-loss goals, which
may be to set a positive example for one’s children, to have more
https://hbr.org/2022/01/the-new-you-business 19/28
10/09/2025, 00:18 The “New You” Business
energy, or to avoid a chronic illness. Articulating the why and
repeatedly reminding customers of this bigger reason helps keep
them motivated over time and get them back on track after
inevitable failures such as binge eating in response to a personal
setback.
Noom seeks to empower individuals to lose weight and keep it off
by changing both their thought processes and their behaviors in
two ways: through daily lessons on topics such as how to think
about food and how to form healthy habits and through coaching
by people Noom has rigorously trained in various concepts of
psychology. Noom’s app and its coaches, most of whom are full-
time employees, share content with customers pertinent to each
person’s circumstances, struggles, and stage in the journey.
Noom’s website features 29 studies published in peer-reviewed
scientific journals that have demonstrated the effectiveness of its
program. In one study, for example, 78% of users reported weight
loss while using the app. In another, 64% of users who completed
a 24-week program lost more than 5% of their body weight with an
average weight loss of 7.5%.
Over time, as “Noomers” internalize the know-how and build up
the resolve needed to achieve and sustain meaningful behavior
change, they rely less and less on coaching. Looking to the future,
Noom plans to use its approach to treat other conditions, such as
https://hbr.org/2022/01/the-new-you-business 20/28
10/09/2025, 00:18 The “New You” Business
sleep deprivation, stress and anxiety, uncontrolled diabetes, and
hypertension.
3. Provide customized support. Transformation journeys are
individual experiences; success often depends on customized
support and guidance according to each person’s unique
situation, preferences, motivation, and skills. Companies rely on
various means to provide such assistance at scale. Georgia State
University’s success in raising its graduation rates is a case in
point.
In 2003 Georgia State had an overall graduation rate of only 32%;
the rates for Black and Hispanic students were 29% and 22%,
respectively. By taking several actions to get students the support
they needed, the school had by 2011 increased the overall rate to
48%, the rate for Black students to 52%, and the rate for Hispanic
students to 48%.
The actions included introducing orientation sessions to provide
students with essential information and skills for succeeding in a
particular major; fostering “learning communities” by having
students who had elected the same major take classes in blocks;
having undergraduates who succeeded in lower-level courses one
semester become tutors in the same courses in subsequent
semesters; and restructuring introductory math courses so that
https://hbr.org/2022/01/the-new-you-business 21/28
10/09/2025, 00:18 The “New You” Business
students spend most of their time in a computer lab, where they
get individual feedback and learn at a pace that fits their needs.
But by then progress had stalled, and nearly 25% of
undergraduates weren’t returning each year. Timothy Renick and
Allison Calhoun-Brown—then the university vice president for
student success and the associate vice president for student
success, respectively—recognized that leveraging the school’s
student advisory service was critical to further improving
graduation rates. But the service’s dearth of professional advisers
—one per 1,200 students—made that impossible without insight
into which students would most benefit from support. Enter
Navigate, a predictive analytics tool.
Transformation business models will
be much harder to imitate than those
that offer only goods, services, or
experiences. And they promise to
generate a handsome reward.
The tool analyzes indicators such as GPA, current major, and the
number of prior majors declared to predict the likelihood that a
student will graduate within six years. Advisers can then reach
https://hbr.org/2022/01/the-new-you-business 22/28
10/09/2025, 00:18 The “New You” Business
out to at-risk students to give them the personal support needed
to address the barriers to getting a college degree—such as taking
courses out of the recommended sequence or changing majors
frequently. Also, when the tool identifies students who are on
track to graduate but have a modest outstanding balance for
tuition and fees, university staffers reach out to them to offer a
microgrant (called a Panther Retention Grant) if they agree to
meet with a financial counselor to plan how they will finance the
rest of their education. These grants average $900, and more than
86% of recipients go on to graduate.
By redesigning the student journey toward a college degree and
leveraging technology, the school had increased its overall
graduation rate to 56% by the fall of 2021. Graduation rates among
Black, Hispanic, and low-income students over the past four years
are at or above that overall rate.
4. Support the full range of j
obs to be done. In the nonprofit
space, Resolve Solutions Incorporated (RSI) illustrates the
importance of supporting all four categories of jobs to be done.
Founded by E. Sean Lanier, a retired U.S. Army major, RSI helps
youths, especially those from underrepresented backgrounds,
achieve their career aspirations. It is a resource hub for various
programs that set them up for success and guide them through
the phases of discovering who they want to be, getting into
https://hbr.org/2022/01/the-new-you-business 23/28
10/09/2025, 00:18 The “New You” Business
college, staying on track, and progressing in their chosen careers.
RSI specializes in helping kids get into an ROTC program at a
high-quality college. Because an ROTC scholarship covers full
tuition and fees, this addresses one of the top barriers to pursuing
a particular career. The ROTC program and officer service prepare
people to become leaders. As Lanier told us, a military career is
not the goal; rather,
“our game plan is to make sure that [students]
graduate from college and have leadership skills. They’ll propel
themselves from there.
”
RSI works with each student to orchestrate his or her
transformation journey. On a functional level, for example, it
partners with Guaranteed 4.0, a business focused on learning
skills to help participants improve their grades. On an emotional
level, RSI recognizes that lack of confidence is a major barrier to
success, especially for the primarily Black and Hispanic students
it serves. So while the organization supports and encourages
students and connects them to critical resources, it also makes
sure they do the work. That might be as simple as reminding them
when an application is due (but not doing it for them) or guiding
them to groups such as the National Society of Black Engineers.
As Lanier explains,
“When a kid wakes up in the morning at
school, they have to look themselves in the mirror and say,
‘Yep, I
did this.
’ They have to own it. If they own it, they’re going to be
much more successful at it.
”
https://hbr.org/2022/01/the-new-you-business 24/28
10/09/2025, 00:18 The “New You” Business
On a social level, RSI understands that success depends on kids’
having several adults in their lives to support them. So it ensures
that each student works with at least one mentor, often in his or
her chosen career field. The mentors, who come from RSI’s vast
network of volunteers, regularly meet with their mentees for years
to guide, encourage, and occasionally prod them. On an
aspirational level, they help the students create a plan, make
good choices, access the right resources, and stay focused so that
they can achieve their career ambitions.
At the Virginia Military Institute, for example, the success rate of
RSI youths who get an ROTC scholarship and then go on to
graduate from college and become commissioned officers is 81%
—well above the national average of 52%. And RSI’s success rate
of 70% at Historically Black Colleges and Universities is more
than double the success rate at those institutions overall.
5. Charge for outcomes. A true transformation business goes
beyond charging for the physical things (goods), company
activities (services), and memorable events (experiences) on
which it builds its offerings. It aligns its fees with what customers
value: transformational outcomes.
One example is recent changes in state governments’ policy of
paying for social outcomes. Massachusetts, for example,
https://hbr.org/2022/01/the-new-you-business 25/28
10/09/2025, 00:18 The “New You” Business
authorized its social service agencies in 2012 to enter into “pay for
success” contracts. One agency stopped paying for the time
employees spent in an English fluency class and instead started
paying them when they had secured steady employment because
of their demonstrated fluency. Another example is in U.S. health
care. Fueled largely by pressure from payers, the movement to tie
reimbursement to outcomes and patient satisfaction has been
gaining steam in the past decade. Affected players include
hospitals, clinicians, device makers, and drug companies.
. . .
Competing on transformations makes a company responsible for
working with customers to define the transformation each one
seeks, identify the barriers to success, and orchestrate all the
goods, services, and experiences needed to support them during
their journeys. Such business models will be much harder to
imitate than those that offer only goods, services, or experiences.
And they promise to generate handsome rewards—not only
profits but also the knowledge that the company has truly made a
profound difference in its customers’ lives.
A version of this article appeared in the January–February 2022 issue of Harvard
Business Review.
https://hbr.org/2022/01/the-new-you-business 26/28
10/09/2025, 00:18 The “New You” Business
Lance A. Bettencourt is an associate
professor of professional practice at Texas
Christian University’s Neeley School of
Business.
B. Joseph Pine II is co-founder of Strategic
Horizons LLP and the author of many books,
including The Experience Economy, with
James H. Gilmore, and Infinite Possibility:
Creating Customer Value on the Digital
Frontier, with Kim C. Korn.
@j
oepine
James H. Gilmore is a cofounder of Strategic
Horizons LLP, an assistant professor at Case
Western’s Weatherhead School of Management,
and a coauthor of The Experience Economy.
https://hbr.org/2022/01/the-new-you-business 27/28
10/09/2025, 00:18 The “New You” Business
David W. N
orton is founder of the insights
consultancy Stone Mantel and the author
of Digital Context 2.0: Seven Lessons in
Business Strategy, Consumer Behavior, and the
Internet of Things.
Read more on Competitive strategy or related topics Customer-centricity,
Consumer behavior and Business models
https://hbr.org/2022/01/the-new-you-business 28/28

[TEXT END]
